blended families face a particular toxic
probate problem a blended family is a
family which one of the spouses is a
child outside of the marriage without
proper estate planning a blended family
will face significant financial
difficulty upon the death of a spouse in
this video we are going to explore what
a man needs to do to protect himself and
his family
in the case he passes away note this
presentation is for only in the state of
Texas while other state laws may be
similar the author makes no
representations about any state law
other than the state of Texas children
are the victims of poor estate planning
in today's world it is difficult for
children to make it without financial
assistance from their parents blended
families are faced with a unique problem
who do you pass your property to do you
pass your property to to your children
to make sure they receive an inheritance
or to your spouse to take care of your
children the first step in analyzing
that question is to understand how your
family is structured in this
demonstration doug has a son josh from
his first marriage doug was divorced a
few years later and after six years
being single he married Sally Sally and
Doug have a daughter Rebecca the second
step is to understand what will happen
if Doug does not get a will the majority
of ducks property will not be passed to
Sally his property will pass to his
children in this situation sally is
faced with a significant financial
problem she has lost Doug's income and
now is forced to give Josh to Rebecca
the majority of does estate this problem
can result in Sally filing bankruptcy
and losing the family home in the state
of Texas we follow community property
rules this means if you are married your
spouse owns half of the assets and debt
well not all property of a marriage is
community property everything earned
during the marriage is community
property upon the death of all of his
community property will pass to his
children Sally will get to keep her half
of the community property and Sally
would only get one-third of Doug's
separate real property
estate planning is needed to help Sally
keep the finances afloat while
transitioning the family to a life
without doubt it did Josh Josh is the
odd man out in this situation he is not
Sally son and he just lost his father
Josh had received some kind of
inheritance to keep him him until he he
is an adult some people expect their
spouses to take care of their children
after they're gone while this is a noble
concept in reality is not practical in
the real world
the odds are after Doug passes away that
Sally will meet someone and get get
remarried while Sally may have intended
to leave an inheritance to Josh Sally
and her new husband might have financial
difficulty of their own in that
situation she would need to leave her
estate to her new husband to help pay
for his retirement it is almost certain
josh will not be in Sally's new
husband's will this is exactly why Josh
should inherit at the time of Doug's
death in addition Josh should inherit
money most people can afford to leave
cash to their children to their children
so a life insurance policy should be
taken out for Josh's benefit changing
gears for a moment the next issue we
face is what do you need to do to take
yourself in our example Doug should have
some documents to take care of here
deeds in case he becomes incapacitated
everyone should have a met power of
attorney
designating a loved one to make
healthcare decisions for you when you
are M when you are unable to do so
yourself in addition a power of an
attorney should be drafted to handle
your financial affairs if something were
to happen to you the next document that
we that someone should get is a directed
to position also known as a living will
instruct instruct this document
instructs a doctor on what he should do
if you are terminal or face it ear
reverse or irreversible condition this
is a simple document which has a
significant impact on your life
Willie we leave behind a lot of things
when we pass some things have real value
to us like a pet
or the fem or the family home Fido the
friendly family dog will most likely be
put to death upon the death of its owner
most people do not want that to happen a
pet trust can be set up leaving money
for the benefit of a pet allowing a
person to have the financial means to
take care of your pet in Texas a probate
can be avoided if a person creates a
living trust the single most important
asset to place it in the living trust is
the home if a home is not placed into a
living trust then the property needs to
pass through probate to establish
ownership we hope you enjoyed this
presentation
the main point to take away from this
presentation is that the family must get
an estate plan the willingham law firm
is dedicated to the estate planning of
an average family we offer $199 well to
help middle-class families planning done
if you are a blended family give us a
call at two one four two five zero or
four zero seven or email me at taylor at
taylor willingham calm